content/materials.md, before:

---
nav_order: 2
title: Course Materials
---

We've collected and listed the materials you will need to succeed in this series. We will walk you through installing and using  any software listed here.

## Software and Tools

`GitHub:` [GitHub](https://github.com/) is a version control platform that enables collaboration and facilitates the simplification of static site generation through their [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/) service.

`GitHub Desktop:` The [GitHub Desktop client](https://github.com/apps/desktop) simplifies version control and makes it easier to move between a remote and local repository.

`A Text Editor:` The instructor will use [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) in all demonstrations so if you do not have a preferred text editor, we recommend downloading the software. Please confirm that your computer meets [the system requirements](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/supporting/requirements). Feel free to wait to download the software until one of our sessions.

`Google Sheets:` We will avoid Excel and build metadata spreadsheets in Google Sheets.

`A Development Environment:` To limit confusion we will share more about this later in the series.

## Research Materials

`Research objects:` These can be image files, PDFs, mp3s, etc. You can have as few as 5-10 objects to build a successful prototype.

`Metadata:` Metadata is data about data. You will need information about your research objects such as title, author/creator, object description, location of origin, and potentially more depending on your project vision.

`Textual content:` You will want to contextualize your objects with more than just the metadata you have collected. 

`Other multimedia:` While video, audio, timelines, maps, and more may not be your research objects, that can help contextualize and/or complement your research objects.

Commit message:

updates readme, materials, and resources

content/materials.md, after:

---
nav_order: 2
title: Course Materials
---

We've collected and listed the materials you will need to succeed in this series. We will walk you through installing and using  any software listed here.

## Software and Tools

`GitHub:` [GitHub](https://github.com/) is a version control platform that enables collaboration and facilitates the simplification of static site generation through their [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/) service.

`GitHub Desktop:` The [GitHub Desktop client](https://github.com/apps/desktop) simplifies version control and makes it easier to move between a remote and local repository.

`A Text Editor:` The instructor will use [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) in all demonstrations so if you do not have a preferred text editor, we recommend downloading the software. Please confirm that your computer meets [the system requirements](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/supporting/requirements). Feel free to wait to download the software until one of our sessions.

`Google Sheets:` We will avoid Excel and build metadata spreadsheets in Google Sheets.

`A Development Environment:` To limit confusion we will share more about this later in the series.

## Research Materials

You will need to bring research materials to this course to successfully build a prototype of your project. These materials do not need to be perfect or complete by the start of our sessions. Our goal is create a proof-of-concept, not a highly polished and completed project.

`Research objects:` These can be image files, PDFs, mp3s, etc. You can have as few as 5-10 objects to build a successful prototype.

`Metadata:` Metadata is data about data. You will need information about your research objects such as title, author/creator, object description, location of origin, and potentially more depending on your project vision.

`Textual content:` You will want to contextualize your objects with more than just the metadata you have collected. 

`Other multimedia:` While video, audio, timelines, maps, and more may not be your research objects, that can help contextualize and/or complement your research objects.
